Today's text reminds us of our loving God, Jehovah, and what he's done for you and for me and all humans.
He is the originator of marriage. Yes, he is the marriage bond maker.
So his purpose, from the very beginning, from Adam and Eve to our day, was that they would stick together,
that they would be one flesh, be bonded together, and it would be a permanent and lasting and happy relationship.
But here's the problem. On the other hand, we have Satan, who is the original bond breaker.
He wants to break marriages and families. He wants to get in between your marriage and my marriage and cause a wedge.
So what will make or break our marriage?
Well, the key is to the extent to which we show and prove our love to Jehovah and be loyal to his commandments,
including the marriage arrangement and our love and our loyalty to our mate.
We must also prove our hatred for what Satan has done and is doing today by breaking up families and marriages,
and making sure that nothing will interfere with the tight bond and secure bond that we have within our marriage.
When the marriage bond breakers, the Pharisees were trying to test Jesus in his day,
do you remember what Jesus did? Well, the first thing he did was go back and quote what Jehovah said about Adam and Eve.
So if you go to your Biobles, let's go to Matthew chapter 19 and verses 5 and 6.
And Jesus tells these Pharisees that, didn't you read about this already?
In verse 5, he goes on to say, for this reason,
a man will leave his father and his mother, and he will stick to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.
So he quoted exactly what Jehovah said, but then he went a little bit further in verse 6.
He says, so that they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Therefore, what God has yoke together, let no man put apart.
It's interesting that our study notes help us to appreciate what stick to means.
Literally, it means to glue, to join or bind closely together to cling to.
So when it comes to a union of a husband and wife, they need to be glued together.
What about the term one flesh? They could also mean one body, one person.
It describes the closest bond between a husband and wife, inseparable companions.
It says in a study note that such a union cannot be broken up without damage to the partners bound by it.
So something that's supposed to be permanently glued, you try to tear it apart, there will be problems.
People often say when newly married couple gets married that they tied the knot.
I think we've all heard that.
But unfortunately, some couples and many couples go from being stuck on their partner,
being attracted to them because of maybe looks or because of things in common, to actually being stuck with them.
Big difference.
They quickly want to untie the knot, separate the bond, and become unglued.
That's many in the world, but that's not you.
And that's not Jehovah's people in general.
Millions are enjoying a happy, successful marriage.
Well, what are these marriages missing? Why are they becoming unglued?
Well, they don't have the right kind of glue.
Well, what is the glue that will bond your marriages, your marriage and all marriages around the world? What do we need?
Notice what Paul tells us in Colossians chapter three in verse 14, the secret to success, the glue that bonds us together.
Colossians three in verse 14.
He says, love. Love is a perfect bond of union.
That's the glue that is missing in most marriages, not a romantic type of love, but the attachment that will not let go, that will continue to be bonded.
Not only the couple, but with Jehovah.
As we know, if we're trying to glue something together with wood glue or plastics or some kind of adhesive,
there's many different types of components or ingredients within glue that give it maximum holding power or strength.
What are the bonding ingredients or materials found in love?
If you're still in Colossians chapter three, Paul lists many bond makers, as well as bond breakers.
Let's go through the list of bond breakers so we know what to avoid.
There in Colossians chapter three, notice verse five, the bond breakers are sexual immorality, uncleaness, uncontrolled sexual passion, hurtful desire, and greediness.
Total selfishness, we see this in most marriages today.
Verse eight goes on to say, wrath, anger, badness, abusive speech, and obscene talk, verse nine, line.
Well, these are things that will tear our marriage apart. It will not keep it together.
So we know this, but we need to ask ourselves, if I know this, why would I want to bring it to my marriage, anything that would tear it apart?
In appropriate material, entertainment, pornography.
Why would I form an attachment, an emotional attachment with someone who is not my mate or flirt with them?
It would break the marriage bond. Why would I speak in such a harsh sarcastic, critical way to my best friend, to my marriage mate?
Before using glue and trying to put something together, both surfaces need to be clean.
That's in a physical way, but also with the marriage itself.
We need to make sure that everything is removed that would prevent permanent bonding.
So we need to have a clean conscience and be clean with what we think and what we see and what we do.
So what are the bond makers that will help us, that will help love be part of our marriage?
What are the ingredients? Notice Colossians chapter three in verse 12.
It says we're to put on, as though we strip off the old things, clothe ourselves with tender affections of compassion, kindness, humility, mildness, and patience.
These are keys to our success.
And in verse 13, we should continue putting up with one another and forgiving one another freely.
So these will lead to a happy family life.
We all want to be happier than we are now.
It's been said that the first to apologize is the bravest, the first to forgive is the strongest, and the first to forget is the happiest.
So that's the key to success as well.
And there are many fine examples in the Bible and modern day examples that we can try to imitate.
One of the couples that come to my mind from the Bible is Aquila and Priscilla.
And what do we know about them?
Amazingly, they were always together.
One was never mentioned without the other.
They were in their theocratic activities and their social life.
They were together and they were running the race for life together.
And we appreciate how they were bonded together.
It made them a success.
We want to imitate that.
And all the modern day examples that help us to appreciate that we want to continue to stick together.
We're all running in the race for life.
That's true.
But if we're married, we're not running alone.
We have our partner, and we need to run with them.
It's sort of like running in a three-legged race.
What is a three-legged race?
Well, it's when two people are joined together at the ankle and they run to the finish line.
Here, we have Caleb and Sofia's parents helping us to demonstrate this for us.
They're tied together, but how do we know that their marriage will be successful?
Well, first, the partners must remain tied.
It must be bound together, permanent.
They need to cling tightly to their partner, support them, stabilize them if they were to stumble or fall.
They need close communication to start off on the right foot and continue to run in the same direction toward the same goal.
And it's vital that they run together, move as one body, one flesh, not two,
and in harmony with synchronized steps and run in the same pace at the same speed.
And they will be successful.
Likewise, when it comes to your marriage and my marriage, we need partners that are strong.
That will support us. That will stabilize us.
Work together to achieve goals that will make Jehovah happy and in turn make us happy.
Communication is the key to our success.
We can reach the finish line together with this bonding and with Jehovah in the marriage.
But what if our partner were to fall or feel down?
Ecclesiastes 4.10 says, for if one of them falls, the other can help his partner up.
So if our partner is stressed out, anxiety, emotionally spent, feeling down, we can pick them up by giving them our full attention.
Yes, we're busier than ever with our work assignments. And we're trying to exercise.
We're trying to be with all of our friends.
But that cannot overshadow the communication that is needed with our best friend, our running mate, our wife or our husband.
So we need to put the work away, put down our device, and give undivided attention to our partner.
And each day we want to communicate through prayer, talk to Jehovah, the three of you, and make Jehovah part of that marriage.
And that's what Ecclesiastes 4.12 says, that a three-fold cord cannot quickly be torn apart.
So just love between a man and a woman is not enough.
We need Jehovah to make it the strongest and happiest possible.
So as you keep Jehovah as a central strand in your marriage, you will be married at heart, you will stick together with the right kind of glue.
Yes, love. The perfect bond of union that will never fail.